This is the second of three video clips covering the complete teaching on the Buddha Shakya Muni
Windhorse Retreat.
This is the second of the three videos covering the complete teaching on the Buddha Shakya Muni
This is the third of the three videos covering the complete teaching on the Buddha Shakya Muni Wind
horse Retreat.
Even the cops, they are so hungry, so fast, there is nothing left.
And he gives up his own life to save this hungry tiger, and the tigerous, and the cops.
That's the one beautiful story that the Buddha gave up, his own life to free the tigerous.
And there are so many beautiful stories, one after another.
There are so many that the Buddha gave, how completely activated that he performed through that, he
became the Buddha.
But the one after another, through his generous, through his willingness, through his courage and
commitment.
And there is another beautiful story, again, is that the teaching said that one time Buddha was
born as a turtle, sea turtle.
I mentioned that one time, I mean, so many, but he was born as sea turtle, sea turtle.
In the ocean, there is also martians going in the ocean.
I wrote martians in the ocean and said, "I want big sheeps, sheeps, suddenly big or I can tell what
type you came, and it's completely upside down."
And then all those martians, those beings are holding whatever they can hold to save their lives,
lives.
But this is not really going so far.
At that time, Buddha was as born as I said, sea turtles.
And again, he came on the shore to save them.
He indicated they can hold him.
And as he did, and all those martians are whole, travels born to the sea turtles.
And Buddha drove them to the shore with big apple.
He brought all of them on the shore.
Once he go to the shore in the teaching, he said he was so tired, so tired, he fall asleep on the
shore.
Then he woke up.
The moment he woke up, he woke up because so many insects are biting him, biting him.
And because of that pain, he woke up.
And he thought, suddenly going to jump to the ocean, talk.
And then he thought, oh, I came here to save these human beings.
And now if I jump back, this all will die.
So what does that mean?
This is the time I'm going to give my life.
Even they eat bone, and I'm going to eat.
And through this effort, through this quality of commitment, I did become the Buddha.
May I share my first teaching to these beings?
Because he made that beautiful statement.
He said, and the teaching said he passed away because of everyone.
So this is again one of the beautiful stories, how kind and competitive.
Even he was born as animals.
He continued to keep his commitment and courage.
Same thing, and then he became the Buddha.
So therefore, here, the great compassion one, great teaching, I propose.
And how many is there?
Again, respect and appreciation is very opposite of the arrogance.
When you don't have the arrogance, arrogance is one of the most negative emotions, obstacles to us.
Like all, money, I mean not all, but many mistakes don't bite our arrogance.
There's gross arrogance, medium arrogance, very subtle arrogance.
And this arrogance, generally, as soon as we have the ego clinging, there is some degree of the
arrogance.
We act that knowingly, unknowingly, and that becomes disturbance for our joy and peace,
our own and joy and peace for others.
Therefore, arrogance is one of the negative emotions.
During the respect and appreciation is very underdog of the arrogance.
And so that with the understanding, with respect and appreciation.
And then there is the offerings.
Offering the second group, again, is the way to accumulate the merit, so offerings.
And this is, again, generally, offering me this practice of generosity.
There's many, as in teaching, so now maybe I won't go to that community.
We all know this basically.
Accumulator of the merit of the three dolls by the wealth of my seven fathers.
And this is three dolls.
Accumulator of the merit means somebody don't bite a good heart.
Good heart.
And that is, as we elaborated that good heart, is by true love, true compassion, devotion, joy.
Whatever we did something with that divine thought and start that with it,
reflect that we wobble and ache, whatever we do, it is merit.
Why is old merit?
Because it matters.
You have it.
Where it started is habit.
True love is habit.
True compassion is habit.
Devotion is habit.
Joy is habit.
With that, we do some activity.
Also, it will make same thing.
Others are not happy.
Others make peaceful.
It makes beautiful environment.
Therefore, it is known as "meh" is a good deal.
And so good did whatever we did by our three dolls.
This is a metaphor in Buddhism.
They use three dolls.
That means body, speech, or body, verbal, and our mind.
That is what we get.
And why they put dolls in the teacher always?
These three are the entrance of our every deed.
Then through this entrance, it performs every hour deeds.
Whether it is negative, whether it is positive, whether it is neutral,
every human went through these three dolls, three entrance.
Went through mind, through verbal, through physical.
They are like an entrance of dolls.
Dolls, for that reason, is a music metaphor.
Here he discusses the good deeds.
Good deeds that whatever I did, did,
and then together with our good deeds and my wealth.
That my wealth and this time I have.
All that wealth.
Well, and not just my wealth, but also wealth of every dimension.
So that means physically existing our wealth and together with it mentally.
Mentally anything that you see, beautiful things, good things in this universe,
or not just the whole universe of all, that what we see now.
And then in the teaching always also said, even if we don't have now,
but in the past, in the past our lives, we have many a wealth too.
In life, those all we bring back to now,
and in the future lives, whatever we have wealth and others will have wealth.
We bring that to now here, to the person,
and make that as one big offering, things, and as in the teachings.
When you write them as offering the clothes,
it's magic with the smell of offerings, endless, infinite,
and beautiful, exulting things that I've made that offering
to all the Buddha, Dhamma, Sangha, and all the enlightened beings,
or to benefit all living beings.
So that is offerings.
And offering is then, is opposite of, what's it called?
Mises, I will say.
I will say it, and offering is also a generous practice.
And then next is compassion.
Compassion is a pre-replication practice.
It's called pre-replication.
Again, compassion means this, of course, terminology of the Buddha teachings,
or the spiritual or world-use compassion.
But compassion is tools and means to harmonize them,
to cleanse them, and to purify them.
This is what compassion is.
That is called purification or compassion.
We purify, we cleanse with that.
Compassion means also we are acknowledging the deeds,
something if not good, you acknowledge it yourself.
I know, I did something wrong,
and then I'm glad to clean, I like to purify.
That is the one that we need compassion.
And this, of course, even though in the samsara world,
even we didn't use the terminology or the religious terminology,
in the samsara and mandic world, we do that.
For example, we may say to each other, "I'm sorry."
That sorry world is compassion.
That we've used the world as religious.
Sorry world, you see.
That means you acknowledge it.
Tools acknowledge it, something that mistakes,
and that hurts feelings for others.
And therefore, you will say, "I'm sorry."
When you say, or when people say, "Sorry,"
that cleans, that clears weight.
That negative clears weight, it won't.
Others also don't hold that as negative.
That energy, that evaporation is clearing.
And also, also, you become happy.
Why say that?
That is cleansing.
That is purifying.
Of course, it's all magic.
It's all a dream again.
It's nothing solid, permanent.
Is it just a dream?
It's a verb, it's verbal.
Verbal, but the verbal is magic verbal.
Magic verbal, and it means, as I said, we acknowledge it.
Something not right.
And therefore, I say, "Sorry."
I say, "Sorry."
"Sorry."
That is.
And here, sir, I needed that I did mistakes.
Knowingly, unknowingly, and directly, indirectly,
that hurt me, that hurt others,
I'm now going to cleanse and qualify.
I'm not going to keep that.
With that experience, and trying to also keep an heart in mind,
I'm never going to do again that.
All the blessings of the Buddha and Bodhisattva,
I won't do any mistakes.
That will hurt others, hurt me.
This is restricting our quality and commitment.
And also, it is purifying, because what we call,
we practice.
Practice makes perfect.
It also means that we do some mistakes.
We're not perfect.
But yet, we are trying to make perfect.
And this purification and compassion
is one of the special tools.
Tools to make ourselves perfect and beautiful.
And then it won't stay in the mental states.
And so, with that understanding.
And this purification is also known directly,
and this purification is directly
the antidote of ignorance.
It's also ignorance.
But when we do the negative activities,
most of the time, we're not doing that with you.
With knowing.
Many times, we do the mistakes.
Even we do with knowingly,
we did that with emotions.
Emotions are rooted on the ignorance.
The primary source of every negative activity
comes from the ignorance.
Therefore, in the Buddha teaching said,
anger is the best condition,
source of every negative activity that we do.
Therefore, it's an ignorance.
And therefore, when we perfect this,
this is the direct antidote of ignorance.
So that is really a Buddha's compassion.
And next one is rejoicing.
Rejoicing, again, in the teaching said here,
so I won't do too much,
but it's rejoicing opposite,
direct antidote of the jealousness.
Rejoicing.
When we rejoice and joy,
happiness and goodness for others,
when we feel rejoiced that,
it's also joy and rejoice.
We don't get upset.
We didn't get kind of feel bad.
We didn't make comment on that.
But feel happy and joyful.
Oh, how wonderful.
How beautiful.
May they have that forever.
Not just for them,
but make every living have that beautiful success.
Beautiful things, beautiful times.
Really, which is sincerely from our heart.
That is not rejoicing.
It is so powerful,
so special in the Buddha teaching said.
Here we are, what the Buddha said.
(speaking in foreign language)
In the merit of the noble one of persons,
all their events are culminated
throughout the three times, highly rejoiced.
Good deeds of the events,
who are doing some of the good things in this world,
something making really beautiful difference there.
Who wish that.
How wonderful.
May they can do for that for a long time.
Even better that.
May everyone can do that.
May even I can.
May I able to do that similar as they do that.
Wishing that sincerely and making that statement
from the heart.
That is rejoicing.
And then good deeds.
Anything good deeds.
Everything good deeds.
Whether they are enlightened beings doing good deeds,
or whether ordinary beings are doing something good in this.
In the name of religions,
in the name of not only religions,
a good deed is a good deed.
We have to enjoy, appreciate, respect that.
Wishing that sincerely how beautiful it is.
In the teaching said,
if you wish that even you didn't do your self-physical,
but there's a wishing in self,
you join with that.
You join with that,
you will get also merit.
You will gain merit.
Merit.
Even their performance,
not their drawings,
but simply our gesture,
heartfelt joy,
appreciation,
what they did,
exalt is great merit.
We will get same result in the Buddha teaching said.
We will get the same result.
Result, benefit.
It's one of the spiritual way.
And then it is also known as
direct antidote of jealousness.
Jealous.
And also in teaching said,
it will open our capabilities.
Couple of bullets of good deeds.
You aspire.
Once you aspire in your heart
with that something good,
that means you are opening that couple of bullets.
Your self.
So you can perform that.
Similar things even better.
Better.
Therefore,
can close shut down with guilt
and kind of making comments on those things,
then it's just pulling our self,
making our self more weak,
stronger and reduce our capabilities
instead of explaining that.
That's what the teaching says.
And so that's,
and then next one is,
is then turning the wheel of dharma
as opposed to teaching.
Teaching, and this is already said,
but this teaching is known as,
as opposed to teaching is known as directly,
then antidote also ignorance.
It is for the Muslims.
It's because we are asking,
wisdom, so that is,
this many varieties of the Buddha teachings,
from the Mahayat in the Yarnam,
Pratihi Buddha in all the Mahayana teachings,
all the Muslims.
Or any of the world of the Muslims.
Anywhere there,
purpose have the capabilities,
and they're not for whom.
You're asking,
that is then known as the coastal thing.
It is then, again, direct antidote,
ignorance.
It is wisdom, all the Muslims.
And then,
the prayer to remain.
Prayer to remain.
Remain, again, this is,
and this is then, again,
prayer to remain is directly,
again, antidote of the teaching,
anger and jealousness.
So that whoever is doing,
performing the novel activities in this world,
or anything,
that they will pray,
they may have,
they all have long lives,
long living,
and continue doing good activities.
And the same time,
every single living being
has a long life,
and hope for joy,
and happy, healthy lives.
So this is very special practices,
and this is the real antidote of the giros,
and as well as angers.
Angers,
and that is already here.
So then,
whether you may appear in this,
or be in this world always,
that's what is in the teaching setting.
And the next one is the dedicating prayers.
Dedicating prayer is then,
dedicating marriage.
Marriage,
to, again, our deed,
as exactly as we say,
it is,
dedicating is,
again,
directly antidote of attachment,
and as well as miser.
Miser.
And it is also,
directly antidote to the ego claims,
like that.
So in the teaching setting.
So therefore,
dedicating,
very special,
is the one,
again,
extra only in the teaching of the Buddha Chaturmani,
that our good deeds,
married,
and in what we have,
we are going to share that to every living being,
with them,
to all beings,
God that,
by that,
when they are suffering,
difficult,
is one of the very special tools of,
again,
but by compassion activities.
So we are going to do this for all living beings,
not just only for some small gurus,
but every living,
whatever I did,
whatever I do,
meditate,
practice,
go even smoke,
good deeds,
whatever I do,
may this become the benefit for all living beings,
beings to everyone,
everyone.
So we heed that,
and sincerely,
God is called,
Dedication Praise.
And that also,
Dedication Praise,
is convoluted,
the practice will be born into the truth.
So it's both ways.
And next one is the emocation.
Yes, the emocation,
this is generally,
means the Buddha,
you are the enlightened beings,
whatever that I have not,
I understand realization,
that through the teaching of the Buddha,
is your enlightenment activities.
Your things,
if you didn't come to this world,
there will not be such a great teaching of love and comfort.
First of all,
I don't have that understanding,
have that clear understanding.
Therefore,
whatever knowledge,
the realization that I got from the Buddha teaching,
is your activities,
whether it come from Guru Pia Masambha,
whether it come from all,
any God of great masters of the schools,
of the Buddhism,
Buddhism,
fundamentally go back to the Buddha,
you,
you are the soul of everything,
that's what I say.
Therefore,
I understand how you are so spiritual,
how so important,
and please be continually,
keep me in your compassion,
I,
and hold me with your hand,
and always guide me through your compassion activities,
so that I become,
exactly same as the you,
so I can benefit all living beings,
as you are doing that,
and please make that be that.
So that is the emocation.
It is sincerity,
courage,
confidence,
trusting,
competent,
and devotion,
and that you are,
like to make that,
with determination.
So that is the statement.
Statement,
and with those all praise,
in the,
in the context of the seven brain,
accumulation practices,
and then,
with strong presence of Buddha,
and we guide this praise,
praise,
and we guide these mantras.
And these mantras are,
of course,
the mantras of the Buddha Kherkamuni,
but Buddha Kherkamuni teaching says,
this is a mantra,
not just the Buddha Kherkamuni himself,
but it is the Buddha's,
of all the potent Buddha's mantras,
and all this so spiritual mantra,
mantra that Buddha Kherkamuni himself
become,
by also one of the principles,
these powers,
these mantras,
is teachings,
teachings,
and as well as them,
and also great,
J.S.,
our Lord Kherkamuni also become great
companion,
emanation in one,
according to one teaching,
because of these mantras.
This mantra is so special,
and with this understanding,
residing in these mantras.
And then,
the world,
the world meaning of the mantra is then,
the other is das,
I think, das,
according to this das,
and then the om is the aspicuous prosperity,
aspicuous prosperity,
and goodness,
good fortune,
and harmony,
and those are the meaning of the om.
Meaning of the om syllables,
according to the Sanskrit language.
And then,
muni,
mahamana,
here is soa,
so those are the mantras.
Muni is one,
there is a second muni,
there is mahamana.
And the world meaning of muni means,
mighty one,
great mighty one,
and then,
soa,
all muni can be,
it is translated as tupa,
that I'm translating mighty,
or it can be sujure,
sujure,
great sujure,
that established.
Soa is established.
And what that means,
the great master,
K.I. Bhaddishwara Muni mentioned,
this is muni,
it has many meanings.
One may,
it's called in the negative emotions,
where is arises.
There is three principle negative emotions.
Those are known as three bosons,
three bosons.
And those are those,
that many of you know already.
Those are,
we go to the first,
as anger.
Second is attachment.
Third is ignorance,
ignorance.
So the first muni means,
means you sujure the anger.
Second muni, you subdue the attachment.
Third, mahamuni,
the great subjure.
You subdue the ignorance.
Ignorance comes from,
attachment and anger comes from ignorance.
Anger is,
I call it the ignorance level,
anger is more on the surface.
Surface is more stronger,
but yet it's a little more light.
It's not light.
So anger actually comes from attachment.
Attachment comes from ignorance.
So anger,
attachment is stronger or deeper than anger.
Anger, so there of course is,
anger removed.
Attachment removed.
And then,
all sorts of emotions, ignorance.
Ignorant removed.
All the subdued, subdued, you subdued.
And then another way, again,
can you be all alone, know that, know this,
through the way we act,
the activity of the body,
negative activity of the body,
negative activity of the verbal,
negative activity of the mind.
So forced muni means,
the mighty one who subdue
the negative activity of the body,
mighty one who subdue the negative activity of the speech,
the great mighty one who subdue
the negative activity of the mind.
The negative, all negative activity comes from the mind,
whether it's verbal, whether it's physical.
So fundamentally, it is the mind that you subdue.
So therefore, then when you subdue that,
what it becomes?
What it becomes?
Anger becomes the wisdom of true loving kindness
and a loving kindness.
So the attachment becomes
great loving kindness and compassion.
And then anger becomes the great wisdom stress.
And when you subdue all the wide activities
of the body, speech, mind, what it will become?
Then body becomes so gentle and so peaceful.
And speech becomes so gentle and so peaceful.
Mind becomes, when the mind's negative and subdue,
becomes so gentle and so peaceful.
That was called, then,
the gentle, peaceful, bliss.
That is what comes.
So by practice of this,
with that understanding, with that meaning,
and the recital this month,
they had their own muni, muni, mahamana.
They called them muni teaching, and they said,
so you can jai it as many as time,
they had their own muni, muni, mahamana, and so on.
And then sometimes, if you don't want,
they are in the teaching, say, also you can jai from
own muni, muni, mahamana, and so on.
So in either way, the KG body generally uses jai
in everything.
He jai in everything, every time.
All the time, not really kind of making
different tayat, that means tayat or muni, muni, mahamana.
That's why he always jai tayat or muni, muni, mahamana, and so on.
And then some other great teachers jai,
jai that or muni, muni, mahamana, and so on.
Don't say.
And then afterward, or muni, muni, mahamana, and so on.
So I think either way is fine.
And the teaching said too.
So either way, so then they decided.
During that time, during that time,
then in the Buddha's bodhisattva eminence,
so many golden lights to you, to all the victims,
and removing our suffering from the difficult troubles
and ignorance, and removing our Buddha nature
completely, purely perfectly.
And then it was all the same.
We're thinking that with full devotion,
with full competence, competence without intellectual
aid, analyzation, and skeptical thought, practice.
That is what required practices with that practice.
For yoga, yoga, bodhicata, mandar, the blended, all that,
all that, when you meditate practice,
they really throw all our system, the body,
going the great healing, rejuvenating, natural.
They're going everywhere.
Love and compassion, wisdom, joy, appreciation,
is going everywhere, all such stuff.
Our body has become the body of love, compassion,
joy, and devote.
Our energy becomes that.
Our system becomes that.
Our breathing becomes that.
And our continuity serves.
And the blood becomes in that womb, the beautiful status.
This is the great healing practices,
great powerful practices.
And then what indeed?